# 5.24.0
Released 22nd January 2025.

This is a minor feature release, including new gameplay features, performance improvements, and minor API additions.

**Plugin compatibility:** Plugins for previous 5.x versions will run unchanged on this release, unless they use internal APIs, reflection, or packages like the `pocketmine\network\mcpe` or `pocketmine\data` namespace.
Do not update plugin minimum API versions unless you need new features added in this release.

**WARNING: If your plugin uses the `pocketmine\network\mcpe` namespace, you're not shielded by API change constraints.**
Consider using the `mcpe-protocol` directive in `plugin.yml` as a constraint if you're using packets directly.

## Performance
- PHP garbage collection is now managed by the server, instead of being automatically triggered by PHP.
  - The mechanism for GC triggering is designed to mimic PHP's to avoid behavioural changes. Only the place it's triggered from should be significantly different.
  - This change also avoids unnecessary GCs during object-heavy operations, such as encoding `CraftingDataPacket`. As such, performance during server join should see an improvement.
  - Timings is now able to directly measure the impact of GC. Previously, GC would show up as random spikes under random timers, skewing timing results.
- `ChunkCache` now uses `string` for completed caches directly instead of keeping them wrapped in `CompressBatchPromise`s. This reduces memory usage, improves performance, and reduces GC workload.

## Configuration
- The following settings have been removed from `pocketmine.yml` and will no longer have any effect:
  - `memory.garbage-collection.collect-async-worker` (now always `true`)
  - `memory.garbage-collection.low-memory-trigger` (now always `true`)
  - `memory.max-chunks.trigger-chunk-collect` (now always `true`)
  - `memory.world-caches.disable-chunk-cache` (now always `true`)
  - `memory.world-caches.low-memory-trigger` (now always `true`)

## Gameplay
- Added the following new blocks:
  - All types of pale oak wood, and leaves
  - Resin
  - Resin Bricks, Slabs, Stairs, and Walls
  - Resin Clump
  - Chiseled Resin Bricks
- Some blocks have had their tool tier requirements adjusted to match latest Bedrock updates.
- Added the following new items:
  - Resin Brick
  - Music Disc - Creator
  - Music Disc - Creator (Music Box)
  - Music Disc - Precipice
  - Music Disc - Relic

## API
### General
- Many places had their PHPDoc improved to address issues highlighted by PHPStan 2.x. This may cause new, previously unreported issues to be reported in plugins using PHPStan.

### `pocketmine`
- The following methods have been deprecated:
  - `MemoryManager->canUseChunkCache()`
  - `MemoryManager::dumpMemory()` - relocated to `MemoryDump` class

### `pocketmine\item`
- The following new enum cases have been added:
  - `RecordType::DISK_CREATOR`
  - `RecordType::DISK_CREATOR_MUSIC_BOX`
  - `RecordType::DISK_PRECIPICE`
  - `RecordType::DISK_RELIC`

### `pocketmine\player`
- The following new methods have been added:
  - `public Player->getFlightSpeedMultiplier() : float` - a base multiplier for player's flight speed
  - `public Player->setFlightSpeedMultiplier(float $flightSpeedMultiplier) : void` - sets the player's flight speed multiplier
- The following new constants have been added:
  - `Player::DEFAULT_FLIGHT_SPEED_MULTIPLIER`

### `pocketmine\utils`
- The following new methods have been added:
  - `public static TextFormat::javaToBedrock(string $string) : string` - removes unsupported Java Edition format codes to prevent them being incorrectly displayed on Bedrock
- The following methods have behavioural changes:
  - `TextFormat::toHTML()` now converts `§m` to redstone red (instead of strikethrough), and `§n` to copper orange (instead of underline). This is because the codes previously used for `STRIKETHROUGH` and `UNDERLINE` conflict with the new material codes introduced by Minecraft Bedrock.
  - `Terminal::toANSI()` now converts `§m` to redstone red (instead of strikethrough), and `§n` to copper orange (instead of underline), as above. However, underline and strikethrough can still be used on the terminal using `Terminal::$FORMAT_UNDERLINE` and `Terminal::$FORMAT_STRIKETHROUGH` respectively.
- The following new constants have been added:
  - `TextFormat::MATERIAL_QUARTZ`
  - `TextFormat::MATERIAL_IRON`
  - `TextFormat::MATERIAL_NETHERITE`
  - `TextFormat::MATERIAL_REDSTONE`
  - `TextFormat::MATERIAL_COPPER`
  - `TextFormat::MATERIAL_GOLD`
  - `TextFormat::MATERIAL_EMERALD`
  - `TextFormat::MATERIAL_DIAMOND`
  - `TextFormat::MATERIAL_LAPIS`
  - `TextFormat::MATERIAL_AMETHYST`
- The following constants have been deprecated:
  - `TextFormat::STRIKETHROUGH`
  - `TextFormat::UNDERLINE`
- The following static properties have been added:
  - `Terminal::$COLOR_MATERIAL_QUARTZ`
  - `Terminal::$COLOR_MATERIAL_IRON`
  - `Terminal::$COLOR_MATERIAL_NETHERITE`
  - `Terminal::$COLOR_MATERIAL_REDSTONE`
  - `Terminal::$COLOR_MATERIAL_COPPER`
  - `Terminal::$COLOR_MATERIAL_GOLD`
  - `Terminal::$COLOR_MATERIAL_EMERALD`
  - `Terminal::$COLOR_MATERIAL_DIAMOND`
  - `Terminal::$COLOR_MATERIAL_LAPIS`
  - `Terminal::$COLOR_MATERIAL_AMETHYST`

## Tools
- Fixed some UI issues in `tools/convert-world.php`

## Internals
- Block cache in `World` is now size-limited. This prevents memory exhaustion when plugins call `getBlock()` many thousands of times with cache misses.
- `RakLibServer` now disables PHP GC. As RakLib doesn't generate any unmanaged cycles, GC is just a waste of CPU time in this context.
- `MemoryManager` now has the responsibility for triggering cycle GC. It's checked every tick, but GC won't take place unless the GC threshold is exceeded, similar to PHP.
  - This mechanism could probably do with alterations to better suit PocketMine-MP, but it was chosen to mimic PHP's own GC to minimize behavioural changes for now.
- `AsyncTask` now triggers cycle GC after `onRun()` completes. As with `MemoryManager`, this is based on a threshold designed to mimic PHP's own behaviour.
- `FormatConverter` now performs world provider GC periodically. This is not needed with current active providers, but was found to be a problem while developing custom providers.
- Various internal adjustments were made to avoid returning incorrectly-keyed arrays in the code. These changes shouldn't affect anything as the arrays should have been properly ordered anyway.
- Many places that previously used `==` and `!=` have been updated to use strict variants. This kind of change needs to be done carefully to avoid breaking `int|float` comparisons.
