# 5.25.0
Released 16th February 2025.

This is a support release for Minecraft: Bedrock Edition 1.21.60. It also includes some minor API additions supporting new features in this version.

**Plugin compatibility:** Plugins for previous 5.x versions will run unchanged on this release, unless they use internal APIs, reflection, or packages like the `pocketmine\network\mcpe` or `pocketmine\data` namespace.
Do not update plugin minimum API versions unless you need new features added in this release.

**WARNING: If your plugin uses the `pocketmine\network\mcpe` namespace, you're not shielded by API change constraints.**
Consider using the `mcpe-protocol` directive in `plugin.yml` as a constraint if you're using packets directly.

## General
- Added support for Minecraft: Bedrock Edition 1.21.60.
- Removed support for earlier versions.

## Documentation
- Fixed the documentation of `Utils::getOS()`. It now refers to the `Utils::OS_*` constants instead of a list of hardcoded strings.

## API
### `pocketmine\inventory`
This release allows plugins to decide which creative tab they want to add their new items to.
It also allows creating new collapsible groups of items, and modifying or removing existing ones.

- The following new methods have been added:
  - `public CreativeInventory->getAllEntries() : list<CreativeInventoryEntry>` - returns an array of objects, each containing a creative item and information about its category and collapsible group (if applicable).
  - `public CreativeInventory->getEntry(int $index) : ?CreativeInventoryEntry` - returns the creative item with the specified identifier, or `null` if not found
- The following methods have signature changes:
  - `CreativeInventory->add()` now accepts two additional optional parameters: `CreativeCategory $category, ?CreativeGroup $group`. If not specified, the item will be added to the Items tab without a group.
- The following new classes have been added:
  - `CreativeCategory` - enum of possible creative inventory categories (each has its own tab on the GUI)
  - `CreativeGroup` - contains information about a collapsible group of creative items, including tooltip text and icon
  - `CreativeInventoryEntry` - contains information about a creative inventory item, including its category and collapsible group (if applicable)

## Internals
- `CreativeContentPacket` is no longer fully cached due to the requirement for translation context during construction. The individual items are still cached (which is the most expensive part), but the packet itself is now constructed on demand, and group entries are constructed on the fly. This may affect performance, but this has not been investigated.
- `BedrockDataFiles` now includes constants for folders at the top level of `BedrockData` as well as files.
- The structure of creative data in `BedrockData` was changed to accommodate item category and grouping information. `creativeitems.json` has been replaced by `creative/*.json`, which contain information about item grouping and also segregates item lists per category.
- New information was added to `required_item_list.json` in `BedrockData`, as the server is now required to send item component NBT data in some cases.

# 5.25.1
Released 26th February 2025.

## Fixes
- Fixed confusing exception message when a block-breaking tool has an efficiency value of zero.
- Fixed incorrect facing of doors since 1.21.60 (resulted in mismatched AABBs between client & server, rendering glitches etc.)
- Resource pack UUIDs are now validated on load. Previously, invalid UUIDs would be accepted, and potentially cause a server crash on player join.

# 5.25.2
Released 4th March 2025.

## Fixes
- Added limits to various `explode()` calls.
