# 5.39.0
Released 17th December 2025.

This is a minor feature release, including major performance improvements to world generation, new gameplay features,
new API additions and other improvements.

**Plugin compatibility:** Plugins for previous 5.x versions will run unchanged on this release, unless they use internal APIs, reflection, or packages like the `pocketmine\network\mcpe` or `pocketmine\data` namespace.
Do not update plugin minimum API versions unless you need new features added in this release.

**WARNING: If your plugin uses the `pocketmine\network\mcpe` namespace, you're not shielded by API change constraints.**
Consider using the `mcpe-protocol` directive in `plugin.yml` as a constraint if you're using packets directly.

## General
- The performance of the `Normal` world generator has been improved by over 500%. (@dktapps) This is a combination of several changes:
  - Restructuring of 3D lerp handling
  - Avoiding generating 3D noise when it's not useful
  - Improvements to `GroundCover` performance
  - Improvements to ore generation
  - Standardising highest-block calculation using faster APIs
- The timings system will now automatically write timings to a file in the `timings` folder on server shutdown. (@remminiscent, @dktapps)
- Timings files generated by the server now use the current date and time in the file name, similar to crashdumps. (@remminiscent, @dktapps)
- Localised messages in various commands, including `/status`, `/setworldspawn`, `/plugins`, `/teleport`, and others. (@dktapps, Crowdin contributors)
- Fixed translated messages in `/spawnpoint` command. (@siyFred)
- Added support for `@s` command selector. (@dktapps)
- `/effect` now accepts `infinite` for the duration. (@remminiscent)

## Gameplay
- Crouching and holding the sneak key are now treated separately by the server. This allows the player to use interactive blocks while in a 1.5 block high space (forced to crouch), and to disable block interaction while flying without visually crouching by pressing shift+space. (@Dasciam)
- The following blocks have been added:
  - Crimson and Warped Fungus (@DavyCraft648)
  - Crimson and Warped Nylium (@DavyCraft648)
  - Infested Deepslate (@DavyCraft648)
  - Nether Sprouts (@DavyCraft648)
  - Structure Void (@dktapps)
- The following items have been added:
  - Copper Helmet, Chestplate, Leggings, Boots and Nuggets (@ValresMC)
  - Copper Axe, Hoe, Pickaxe, Shovel and Sword (@dktapps)
- Implemented Crimson and Warped Huge Fungi trees. (@DavyCraft648)
- Netherrack can now be turned into crimson or warped nylium by using bone meal on it. (@DavyCraft648)
- Added support for infinite effects. (@remminiscent, @dktapps)
- Implemented magic critical hits when a mob is attacked by an enchanted weapon. (@Dasciam)

## API
### General
- Script plugins may now omit the `@name` and `@version` tags in their manifest. These will be autofilled with `ScriptPlugin_<filename>` and `1.0.0` respectively. (@dktapps, @sof3)
- Added example folder and script plugins in the `examples/plugins` folder.

### `pocketmine\block`
- The following classes have been added:
  - `InfestedPillar` - used by infested deepslate
  - `NetherFungus`
  - `NetherSprouts`
- `InfestedStone` is no longer final.
- The following registry cases have been added:
  - `VanillaBlocks::CRIMSON_FUNGUS()`
  - `VanillaBlocks::CRIMSON_NYLIUM()`
  - `VanillaBlocks::INFESTED_DEEPSLATE()`
  - `VanillaBlocks::NETHER_SPROUTS()`
  - `VanillaBlocks::STRUCTURE_VOID()`
  - `VanillaBlocks::WARPED_FUNGUS()`
  - `VanillaBlocks::WARPED_NYLIUM()`
- The following constants have been added:
  - `BlockTypeTags::NYLIUM`
  - `BlockTypeTags::HUGE_FUNGUS_REPLACEABLE`
- Right-clicking on an incomplete bed will now generate a localised message.

### `pocketmine\command`
- The following classes have been appropriately marked as `@internal` with some basic documentation about their purpose (@dktapps):
  - `CommandExecutor`
  - `FormattedCommandAlias`
  - `PluginCommand`
- The following classes have been deprecated:
  - `ClosureCommand`
  - `CommandExecutor`
- `VanillaCommand->fetchPermittedPlayerTarget()` now understands `@s` to mean the sender of the command.

### `pocketmine\entity\effect`
- `EffectInstance` now supports infinite effects.
  - Due to constraints imposed by `Effect->canTick()`, this is slightly hacky.
  - `Effect->getDuration()` will still tick down for infinite effects to allow effects like Poison to tick, but their durations will underflow to `Limits::INT32_MAX` if they would have reached zero.
  - `Effect->canTick()` has been deprecated in favour of the newly added `Effect->getApplyInterval()`, which constrains us less and will be used in PM6.
- The following API methods have been added:
  - `public Effect->getApplyInterval(EffectInstance $instance) : int` - returns the tick interval of the effect, or 0 if it doesn't tick (@dktapps)
  - `public EffectInstance->isInfinite() : bool` - returns whether the effect will last forever (@remminiscent)
- The following API methods have been deprecated:
  - `Effect->canTick()` - use (or implement, if you're making a custom effect) `getApplyInterval()` instead (@dktapps)

### `pocketmine\entity\animation`
- The following classes have been added:
  - `MagicHitAnimation` - displays critical hit particles normally seen when hitting a mob with an enchanted weapon (@Dasciam)
- The following API methods have signature changes:
  - `CriticalHitAnimation->__construct()` has a new optional parameter `int $particleCount` (@Dasciam)

### `pocketmine\event`
- `PlayerToggleSneakEvent` may now be called by the server in a pre-cancelled state if the player's "sneak pressed" state changed, but they didn't start/stop crouching. This pre-cancelled event can be captured by event handlers with the `@handleCancelled` PHPDoc tag. (@Dasciam)
- The following API methods have been added:
  - `PlayerToggleSneakEvent->isSneakPressed() : bool` - returns whether the player is intentionally activating sneak mode (@Dasciam)

### `pocketmine\item`
- The following enum cases have been added:
  - `ToolTier::COPPER`
- The following registry cases have been added:
  - `VanillaArmorMaterials::COPPER()`
  - `VanillaItems::COPPER_AXE()`
  - `VanillaItems::COPPER_BOOTS()`
  - `VanillaItems::COPPER_CHESTPLATE()`
  - `VanillaItems::COPPER_HELMET()`
  - `VanillaItems::COPPER_HOE()`
  - `VanillaItems::COPPER_LEGGINGS()`
  - `VanillaItems::COPPER_NUGGET()`
  - `VanillaItems::COPPER_PICKAXE()`
  - `VanillaItems::COPPER_SHOVEL()`
  - `VanillaItems::COPPER_SWORD()`

### `pocketmine\player`
- The following API methods have been added:
  - `public Player->isSneakPressed() : bool` - returns whether the player has intentionally activated sneak mode; may differ from `isSneaking()` when e.g. the player is stuck in a 1.5 block space (@Dasciam)
  - `public Player->setSneakPressed() : void` - sets whether the player has intentionally activated sneak mode  (@Dasciam)
- The following API methods have signature changes:
  - `Player->toggleSneak()` now accepts an optional `bool $sneakPressed = true` parameter (@Dasciam)

### `pocketmine\timings`
- The following API methods have been added:
  - `public TimingsHandler::createReportFile(string $directory, ?string $fileName = null) : Promise<string>` - writes the current timings state to a file, used by `/timings report`

### `pocketmine\world\generator`
- `Gaussian` now has additional `kernel1D` and `weightSum1D` public fields.

### `pocketmine\world\generator\object`
- The following classes have been added:
  - `NetherTree`
- The following enum cases have been added:
  - `TreeType::CRIMSON`
  - `TreeType::WARPED`

### `pocketmine\world\sound`
- The following classes have been added:
  - `ArmorEquipCopperSound`

## Internals
- Docker image source is now managed directly in the main repo for easier version management and first-class testing. (@dktapps)
- Several improvements have been made to the Docker image (@dktapps):
  - Avoid unnecessary image rebuilds when only PM code changed
  - Caching of prebuilt PHP binaries now works
  - Consistent directory structure between different build stages to remove the need for `php.ini` hacks
  - Added support for `POCKETMINE_ARGS` environment variable to pass custom options to `PocketMine-MP.phar` (e.g. `--no-log-file`)
- Docker image is now built and tested for every commit. (@dktapps)
- TesterPlugin framework has been improved to no longer require creating a new class for each test. (@dktapps)
- PHPStan template types have now been added to event handler internals wherever possible. This is enabled by newer PHPStan improvements. (@dktapps)
- Reduced boilerplate code in `DefaultPermissions` registration. (@dktapps)
- Added generated `KnownTranslationParameterInfo`, used by `DefaultPermissions` to check that its constructed translation keys are correct. (@dktapps)
- `build/generate-registry-annotations.php` will now generate an intersection of parent class and implemented interfaces if an anonymous class is detected. (@dktapps)

# 5.39.1
Released 21st December 2025.

## Fixes
- Fixed `/status` command causing clients to disconnect (client side issue with translation parameter count). (@TwistedAsylumMC, @dktapps)
- Fixed authentication key refresh bug that was causing newly joining players to fail authentication on long-running servers. (@leolee3914, @dktapps)
- Fixed collision box of snow layers. (@kostamax27)
- Fixed permissions of application files in the Docker image. They are now located in `/opt/pocketmine` (as opposed to the previously used non-standard `/pocketmine`) with the typical permissions for `/opt` (755), and are no longer writeable by the server process during runtime. (@dktapps)

## Internals
- Added CI checks to make sure language `.ini` files don't have byte-order marks (BOM). (@dktapps)

# 5.39.2
Released 26th December 2025.

## Core
- Fixed various PHP 8.5 deprecation notices. (@dktapps)
- Fixed deprecation notice on PHP 8.4 due to `E_STRICT` constant usage in `ErrorTypeToStringMap` (dependency issue). (@dktapps)
- Fixed `Utils::validateCallableSignature()` not accepting `object` as a supertype of a class type (dependency issue). (@dktapps)
- Fixed players being interactable in the (very short) span of time between disconnect and entity deletion. (@dktapps, @kostamax27)

## Gameplay
- Fixed blocks appearing in the wrong place while bridging and other block lag & flickering issues. (@dktapps)
- Fixed goat horns not working after holding the use button to activate them. (@dktapps)
- Fixed trapdoor collision box not matching vanilla Bedrock. (@dktapps, @kostamax27)

## Network
- Modal form response JSON size is now capped to 10 KiB. (@dktapps, @Psycofeu)
- Modal form response JSON is no longer decoded if the form ID is not valid. (@dktapps, @Zwuiix-cmd)
- Eating particles and sounds are now server-controlled. Previously, these relied on `ActorEventPacket` from the client. (@dktapps)

## Documentation
- Improved documentation of `pocketmine\item\Releasable`. (@dktapps)

## Internals
- Added PHP 8.5 to test matrix. (@dktapps)
- Updated several dependencies for PHP 8.5 support. (@dktapps)

# 5.39.3
Released 27th January 2026.

## Fixes
- Character limit for writable books has been raised to 512 to accommodate vanilla oddities. (@Gaprix)
- Fixed `Player->isSneakPressed()` not updating correctly when releasing the sneak key while in forced-crouch state. (@leolee3914)
- Fixed `ZippedResourcePack` not validating manifest header UUIDs, fixing incorrect crash attribution on `PlayerResourcePackOfferEvent` (and if plugins used reflection on `ResourcePackManager`, which they really shouldn't be - use the provided APIs!). (@dktapps)
- Fixed biomes not being set in `flat` world generation. (@remminiscent)
- Fixed key validation for self-signed authentication JWTs. (@dktapps)
- Fixed query interface incorrectly rejecting tokens if the expected token was negative. (@NopeNotDark)

## Documentation
- Added information about PHPStan and PHPUnit to contributing guidelines to assist new contributors. (@dktapps)
- Crash reporting is now properly disabled on GitHub Actions runners. (@dktapps)
- The `SECURITY.md` file now recommends submitting a private report on the GitHub repository's Security tab. The security email inbox should only be used if you're unable to use GitHub. (@dktapps)
